Speak, if you can: what are you?
Into the air; and what seem'd corporal melted As breath into the wind. Would they had stay'd!
Your children shall be kings.
And thane of Cawdor too: went it not so?
The thane of Cawdor lives: why do you dress me In borrow'd robes?
[Aside] Glamis, and thane of Cawdor! The greatest is behind.
[Aside] Two truths are told, As happy prologues to the swelling act Of the imperial theme.--I thank you, gentlemen.
[Aside] If chance will have me king, why, chance may crown me, Without my stir.
[Aside] Come what come may, Time and the hour runs through the roughest day.
Give me your favour: my dull brain was wrought With things forgotten. Kind gentlemen, your pains Are register'd where every day I turn The leaf to read them. Let us toward the king. Think upon what hath chanced, and, at more time, The interim having weigh'd it, let us speak Our free hearts each to other.
Till then, enough. Come, friends.
The rest is labour, which is not used for you: I'll be myself the harbinger and make joyful The hearing of my wife with your approach; So humbly take my leave.
[Aside] The Prince of Cumberland! that is a step On which I must fall down, or else o'erleap, For in my way it lies. Stars, hide your fires; Let not light see my black and deep desires: The eye wink at the hand; yet let that be, Which the eye fears, when it is done, to see.
Being unprepared, Our will became the servant to defect; Which else should free have wrought.
I think not of them: Yet, when we can entreat an hour to serve, We would spend it in some words upon that business, If you would grant the time.
If you shall cleave to my consent, when 'tis, It shall make honour for you.
Good repose the while!
Good morrow, both.
Not yet.
I'll bring you to him.
The labour we delight in physics pain. This is the door.
He does: he did appoint so.
'Twas a rough night.
What is 't you say? the life?
You are, and do not know't: The spring, the head, the fountain of your blood Is stopp'd; the very source of it is stopp'd.
O, yet I do repent me of my fury, That I did kill them.
Who can be wise, amazed, temperate and furious, Loyal and neutral, in a moment? No man: The expedition my violent love Outrun the pauser, reason. Here lay Duncan, His silver skin laced with his golden blood; And his gash'd stabs look'd like a breach in nature For ruin's wasteful entrance: there, the murderers, Steep'd in the colours of their trade, their daggers Unmannerly breech'd with gore: who could refrain, That had a heart to love, and in that heart Courage to make 's love kno wn?
Let's briefly put on manly readiness, And meet i' the hall together.
Ride you this afternoon?
We should have else desired your good advice, Which still hath been both grave and prosperous, In this day's council; but we'll take to-morrow. Is't far you ride?
Fail not our feast.
We hear, our bloody cousins are bestow'd In England and in Ireland, not confessing Their cruel parricide, filling their hearers With strange invention: but of that to-morrow, When therewithal we shall have cause of state Craving us jointly. Hie you to horse: adieu, Till you return at night. Goes Fleance with you?
I wish your horses swift and sure of foot; And so I do commend you to their backs. Farewell.
Bring them before us.
Ourself will mingle with society, And play the humble host. Our hostess keeps her state, but in best time We will require her welcome.
The table's full.
Where?
Which of you have done this?
Thou canst not say I did it: never shake Thy gory locks at me.
I conjure you, by that which you profess, Howe'er you come to know it, answer me: Though you untie the winds and let them fight Against the churches; though the yesty waves Confound and swallow navigation up; Though bladed corn be lodged and trees blown down; Though castles topple on their warders' heads; Though palaces and pyramids do slope Their heads to their foundations; though the treasure Of nature's germens tumble all together, Even till destruction sicken; answer me To what I ask you.
I will be satisfied: deny me this, And an eternal curse fall on you! Let me know. Why sinks that cauldron? and what noise is this?
Saw you the weird sisters?
Came they not by you?
Infected be the air whereon they ride; And damn'd all those that trust them! I did hear The galloping of horse: who was't came by?
Fled to England!
Time, thou anticipatest my dread exploits: The flighty purpose never is o'ertook Unless the deed go with it; from this moment The very firstlings of my heart shall be The firstlings of my hand. And even now, To crown my thoughts with acts, be it thought and done: The castle of Macduff I will surprise; Seize upon Fife; give to the edge o' the sword His wife, his babes, and all unfortunate souls That trace him in his line. No boasting like a fool; This deed I'll do before this purpose cool. But no more sights!--Where are these gentlemen? Come, bring me where they are.
Geese, villain!
Go prick thy face, and over-red thy fear, Thou lily-liver'd boy. What soldiers, patch? Death of thy soul! those linen cheeks of thine Are counsellors to fear. What soldiers, whey-face?
Take thy face hence.
What news more?
I'll fight till from my bones my flesh be hack'd. Give me my armour.
I'll put it on. Send out more horses; skirr the country round; Hang those that talk of fear. Give me mine armour. How does your patient, doctor?
Cure her of that. Canst thou not minister to a mind diseased, Pluck from the memory a rooted sorrow, Raze out the written troubles of the brain And with some sweet oblivious antidote Cleanse the stuff'd bosom of that perilous stuff Which weighs upon the heart?
Throw physic to the dogs; I'll none of it. Come, put mine armour on; give me my staff. Seyton, send out. Doctor, the thanes fly from me. Come, sir, dispatch. If thou couldst, doctor, cast The water of my land, find her disease, And purge it to a sound and pristine health, I would applaud thee to the very echo, That should applaud again.--Pull't off, I say.-- What rhubarb, cyme, or what purgative drug, Would scour these English hence? Hear'st thou of them?
Bring it after me. I will not be afraid of death and bane, Till Birnam forest come to Dunsinane.
She should have died hereafter; There would have been a time for such a word. To-morrow, and to-morrow, and to-morrow, Creeps in this petty pace from day to day To the last syllable of recorded time, And all our yesterdays have lighted fools The way to dusty death. Out, out, brief candle! Life's but a walking shadow, a poor player That struts and frets his hour upon the stage And then is heard no more: it is a tale Told by an idiot, full of sound and fury, Signifying nothing.
Well, say, sir.
Liar and slave!
If thou speak'st false, Upon the next tree shalt thou hang alive, Till famine cling thee: if thy speech be sooth, I care not if thou dost for me as much. I pull in resolution, and begin To doubt the equivocation of the fiend That lies like truth: 'Fear not, till Birnam wood Do come to Dunsinane:' and now a wood Comes toward Dunsinane. Arm, arm, and out! If this which he avouches does appear, There is nor flying hence nor tarrying here. I gin to be aweary of the sun, And wish the estate o' the world were now undone. Ring the alarum-bell! Blow, wind! come, wrack! At least we'll die with harness on our back.
Of all men else I have avoided thee: But get thee back; my soul is too much charged With blood of thine already.
Accursed be that tongue that tells me so, For it hath cow'd my better part of man! And be these juggling fiends no more believed, That palter with us in a double sense; That keep the word of promise to our ear, And break it to our hope. I'll not fight with thee.
I will not yield, To kiss the ground before young Malcolm's feet, And to be baited with the rabble's curse. Though Birnam wood be come to Dunsinane, And thou opposed, being of no woman born, Yet I will try the last. Before my body I throw my warlike shield. Lay on, Macduff, And damn'd be him that first cries, 'Hold, enough!'
how far is't call'd to forres what are these so wither'd and so wild in their attire that look not like the inhabitants o' the earth and yet are on't live you or are you aught that man may question you seem to understand me by each at once her chappy finger laying upon her skinny lips you should be women and yet your beards forbid me to interpret that you are so 
the earth hath bubbles as the water has and these are of them whither are they vanish'd 
were such things here as we do speak about or have we eaten on the insane root that takes the reason prisoner 
you shall be king 
what can the devil speak true 
who was the thane lives yet but under heavy judgment bears that life which he deserves to lose whether he was combined with those of norway or did line the rebel with hidden help and vantage or that with both he labour'd in his country's wreck i know not but treasons capital confess'd and proved have overthrown him 
that trusted home might yet enkindle you unto the crown besides the thane of cawdor but 'tis strange and oftentimes to win us to our harm the instruments of darkness tell us truths win us with honest trifles to betray's in deepest consequence cousins a word i pray you 
look how our partner's rapt 
new horrors come upon him like our strange garments cleave not to their mould but with the aid of use 
worthy macbeth we stay upon your leisure 
very gladly 
my plenteous joys wanton in fulness seek to hide themselves in drops of sorrow sons kinsmen thanes and you whose places are the nearest know we will establish our estate upon our eldest malcolm whom we name hereafter the prince of cumberland which honour must not unaccompanied invest him only but signs of nobleness like stars shall shine on all deservers from hence to inverness and bind us further to you 
my worthy cawdor 
what sir not yet at rest the king's a he hath been in unusual pleasure and sent forth great largess to your offices this diamond he greets your wife withal by the name of most kind hostess and shut up in measureless content 
all's well i dreamt last night of the three weird sisters to you they have show'd some truth 
at your kind'st leisure 
so i lose none in seeking to augment it but still keep my bosom franchised and allegiance clear i shall be counsell'd 
good morrow noble sir 
is the king stirring worthy thane 
he did command me to call timely on him i have almost slipp'd the hour 
i know this is a joyful trouble to you but yet 'tis one 
goes the king hence to 
the night has been unruly where we lay our chimneys were blown down and as they say lamentings heard i' the air strange screams of death and prophesying with accents terrible of dire combustion and confused events new hatch'd to the woeful time the obscure bird clamour'd the livelong night some say the earth was feverous and did shake 
confusion now hath made his masterpiece most sacrilegious murder hath broke ope the lord's anointed temple and stole thence the life o' the building 
what is amiss 
those of his chamber as it seem'd had done 't their hands and faces were an badged with blood so were their daggers which unwiped we found upon their pillows they stared and were distracted no man's life was to be trusted with them 
wherefore did you so 
so all 
let your highness command upon me to the which my duties are with a most indissoluble tie for ever knit 
ay my good lord 
as far my lord as will fill up the time 'twixt this and supper go not my horse the better i must become a borrower of the night for a dark hour or twain 
my lord i will not 
ay my good lord our time does call upon 's 
they are my lord without the palace gate 
thanks to your majesty 
his absence sir lays blame upon his promise please't your highness to grace us with your royal company 
here is a place reserved sir 
here my good lord what is't that moves your highness 
what my good lord 
a deed without a name 
seek to know no more 
what's your grace's will 
no my lord 
no indeed my lord 
'tis two or three my lord that bring you word macduff is fled to england 
ay my good lord 
there is ten thousand 
soldiers sir 
the english force so please you 
what is your gracious pleasure 
all is confirm'd my lord which was reported 
'tis not needed yet 
not so sick my lord as she is troubled with thick coming fancies that keep her from her rest 
therein the patient must minister to himself 
ay my good lord your royal preparation makes us hear something 
the queen my lord is dead 
gracious my lord i should report that which i say i saw but know not how to do it 
as i did stand my watch upon the hill i look'd toward birnam and anon methought the wood began to move 
let me endure your wrath if't be not so within this three mile may you see it coming i say a moving grove 
turn hell turn 
despair thy charm and let the angel whom thou still hast served tell thee macduff was from his mother's womb untimely ripp'd 
then yield thee coward and live to be the show and gaze o' the time we'll have thee as our rarer monsters are painted on a pole and underwrit 'here may you see the tyrant 
